---
layout: post
title: Week 5 (February 16-18, 2015)
---


On Monday, we will discuss several important concepts regarding uncertainty quantification motivated by the last homework.  We will also talk about the frequentist coverage principle.  


On Wednesday, we will introduce multiple regression and briefly discuss the model-building process.  We will also discuss the role of normality assumptions in statistical modeling.  These provide an alternative way to quantify uncertainty about parameters and predictions.  Key concepts:  
* the normal distribution as an aggregation of nudges  
* the four assumptions of the normal linear regression model  
* parametric standard errors  
* prediction intervals under the normal linear regression model  


### R skills

We will look at the following R walkthroughs in class.  
* [newspaper circulation](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/newspapers/newspapers.html): using the normal linear regression model to quantify uncertainty about parameters and predictions.   

In addition, the following walkthrough will help you address the final question on your homework this week.
* [the wage gap](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/salary/salary.html): using multiple regression to assess whether there is a wage gap between men and women with equivalent qualifications.  


### Reading

Finish reading Chapter 5 of the course packet.  This includes new material on the normal linear regression model.  Don't worry too much about the derivation of the prediction interval on page 137.



### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises05-SDS325H.pdf) require you to quantify uncertainty using normal-theory assumptions.  They also ask you to look at a complicated multiple-regression problem.  The exercises are due on Monday, February 23.
