---
layout: post
title: Week 11 (April 6-8, 2015)
---

On Monday we will go over models for count data, including the Poisson and the negative binomial distributions.  Please download the flutrends data and R scripts from the tabs above.

On Wednesday, we will learn time-to-event modeling and fit survival models using the Cox proportional-hazards model.  Please download the "colon.R" file from the tab above and install the R library "survival".


### R skills

Please complete the R scripts described above; these have not been turned into formal walkthroughs yet.  


### Reading and exercises  

[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises10-SDS325H.pdf)continue the theme of generalized linear models.  They will be posted by Monday evening.  

Please read the [summary notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/logit_poisson_cox.pdf) on logit, Poisson, and Cox regression models. 

In addition, you will need to read the following two articles as part of your homework.  Both should be accessible through the [UT Library portal](http://www.lib.utexas.edu):
1) Oral bisphosphonates and risk of cancer of oesophagus, stomach, and colorectum: case-control analysis within a UK primary care cohort.  Green et al.  British Medical Journal 2010; 341.  
2) Exposure to oral bisphosphonates and risk of esophageal cancer.  Cardwell et al.  Journal of the American Medical Association 2010 Aug 11;304(6):657-63. 

The homework directions will have more detail on what you're supposed to do with these articles.  


