---
layout: post
title: Week 4 (February 9-11, 2015)
---

On Monday we will discuss material from Chapter 5 of the course packet, pages 90-111.  We will complete these walk-throughs in class:  
* [Gone fishing](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/gonefishing/gonefishing.html): using the Monte Carlo method to simulate the sampling distributions of the sample mean and of the least-squares estimator.  
* [Creatinine, revisited](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/creatinine/creatinine_bootstrap.html): bootstrapping the sample mean and the OLS estimator; computing confidence intervals from bootstrapped samples.  


On Wednesday we will learn about the normal distribution and its role in regression.  This will cover the remainder of Chapter 5 of the course packet.


### Readings

This week we cover Chapter 5 of the course packet.  You will find that Chapter 5 of Kaplan will help you under both the "Gone fishing" walkthrough and the questions on bootstrapping on your homework.  

Finally, Chapter 3 of Tufte (pages 65-134) contains a treatment of all that we've been covering over the last few weeks: least squares, variable transformations, dummy variables, and so forth.  It is a useful supplement if you feel that your understanding of these concepts isn't as strong as you'd like it to be.  




### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises04-SDS325H.pdf) are about practice with bootstrapping.  You will also be introduced to the ideas of spline regression and cross validation, and gain a new perspective on statistical adjustment.  



