---
layout: post
title: Week 9 (March 23-25, 2015)
---


On Monday, we will (mostly) finish up our discussion of linear regression.  Key concepts include:  
* the ANOVA table for multiple regression models  
* Occam's razors: trading fit and simplicity  
* AIC and stepwise/forward/backward selection    

Model answers for the midterm are available [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/midterm_SDS325H_spring2015_key.pdf).


On Wednesday, we will pick back up with our discussion of parametric inference based on probability theory.  Much of this is based on Chapter 4 of OpenIntro: Statistics.  Key topics include:  
* the standard error of the sample mean  
* the central limit theorem (an informal perspective)  
* confidence intervals and tests based on normality assumptions for large samples  
* inference for small samples: the t distribution versus bootstrapping  

### Reading

Please finish reading Chapter 7 of the course packet, from page 157 onwards.

In addition, please read the rest of Chapter 4 of OpenIntro: Statistics.  This material will have a familiar feel, because it talks about many topics we've already covered (quantifying parameter uncertainty, hypothesis testing, and so forth).  However, it takes a "parametric" approach to these problems, in contrast to the approach we've taken based on boostrapping and permutation tests.


### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises08-SDS325H.pdf) are about parametric inference. They are due Monday, March 30.
