---
layout: post
title: Week 2 (January 26-28, 2015)
---

This week, we will finish up the discussion from last week by covering a few further ideas related to causality:  
* natural experiments  
* matching

On Monday, we talk about some basic methods for exploring multivariate data. Key concepts:  
* continuous and categorical/grouping variables  
* contingency tables  
* simple summaries and graphics: histogram, boxplot, dotplot, scatter plot, lattice plot  
* variation between and within groups  
* simple group-wise models  
* fitted values and residuals  
* group means versus baseline/offset form  


On Wednesday, we talk about ordinary least squares for fitting simple regression models. Key concepts:    
* the parameters of a statistical model  
* the least-squares criterion  
* fitted values and residuals in a linear regression model  
* interpretation of the intercept and slope.  
* transformations and polynomials for estimating nonlinear relationships via linear least squares.


### Readings

The Monday material corresponds to Chapter 2 (pages 25-36 only) of the course packet, and (approximately) Chapters 2-3 of Kaplan.  Please read these sections.

For Wednesday, you'll want to read Chapter 2 (pages 37–49 and 60-70) of the course packet.  The case study on pages 50-59 is optional reading.


### R skills

Outside of class, complete the following R walkthroughs.  
* [titanic](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/titanic/titanic.html): basics of contingency tables.  
* [citytemps](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/citytemps/citytemps.html): measuring and visualizing dispersion; changing default plots.  
* [sat](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/sat/sat.html): boxplots, residuals, fitted values, groupwise means, scatter plots, and lattice plots.  
* [pickup](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/pickup/pickup.html): simple linear models with one numerical predictor.


### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises02-SDS325.pdf) are about simple statistical models: groupwise models and simple linear models fit by ordinary least squares.  They are due on Monday, February 2.


