---
layout: post
title: Week 1 (January 21, 2015)
---

On the first day of class, we talk briefly about the perils of causal reasoning using data.  Key concepts:  
* confounding  
* dependence graphs  
* blinding and placebos  
* longitudinal and cross-sectional studies  
* natural experiments  

We will also get our feet wet with R, the statistical software we'll use just about every day in this course.


### For class

The first thing to do is to install [R](http://www.r-project.org) and then [RStudio](http://www.rstudio.org) on your own computer.  RStudio is not required, but is highly recommended.  It provides a nice front-end interface to R (it's a Git-and-R-savvy IDE, for you CS majors) that makes certain repetitive steps (e.g. loading data) very intuitive.   I will use it in class, so you'll be able to follow along with greater ease if you use it, too.  RStudio will not work unless you install R first.  From the RStudio website, you should download the Desktop version, which is free.

### Readings

All readings are accessible through the Resources tab, above.

* Course packet: Chapter 1 and pages 25-36 of Chapter 2.
* Pages 1-18 of Tufte.
* Chapter 1 of Kaplan: mainly useful as an introduction to R.  Feel free to move rapidly if you're feeling comfortable with the software.

The material this week and next also coincides roughly with Chapter 1 of OpenIntro: Statistics.  You should not feel obligated to read this, but it would be a good supplement for anyone looking for additional study materials.

If you are feeling a little uncomfortable with the idea of R, do not worry.  We will practice a lot in class.  But if you'd like, you can get a jump start on things by following along all the R commands in Chapters 1-3 of Kaplan.  Just replicate exactly what he does in your own R session.  (Don't just copy and paste; actually type the commands yourself!  It's the best way to learn them.)  For additional practice, you may also watch and follow along with these videos from the [R Tutorial](http://dist.stat.tamu.edu/pub/rvideos/) website:
1. Libraries and Packages
2. Reading in Files
3. Inputting Data
4. Getting Help in R
5. Saving Work
6. Basic Statistics


### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises01-SDS325.pdf) involve two goals:  
1. to hone your intuition for assessing the quality of evidence offered in support of a claim about cause and effect.  
2. to practice some basic exploratory data analysis in R.  

In order to do the exercises, you will need to install the mosaic package from within RStudio.  An R package is bundle of commands that provides additional functionality, beyond what comes with the basic R installation.  There are literally thousands of packages available for R, ranging from the simple to the very sophisticated.  The mosaic package was written specifically for use in statistics classrooms.  We will use it along with a handful of other packages this semester, so you'll need to learn how to install them.  The first minute of [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1r5XTqrCTQ) gives a walk-through.

If you need further guidance on installing packages, or anything else R-related, don't worry!  We will iron out all these difficulties over the first several days of class.  You may also be familiar with various [various web services](http://lmgtfy.com/?q=install+package+RStudio) that will get you far in learning R.

