---
layout: post
title: Week 3 (February 2-4, 2015)
---


On Monday, we will go over the last two homeworks and talk about two new concepts:   
* naive prediction intervals   
* the decomposition of variance (the Pythagorean theorem of statistics)  


On Wednesday, we will start a discussion of multivariate statistical models (that is, models with more than one predictor). Key concepts:    
* modeling numerical outcomes in terms of multiple categorical predictors  
* main effects and interactions  
* the analysis of variance  
* simple regression models with one numerical predictor and one or more categorical predictors  
* aggregation paradoxes  


### Readings

The Monday material corresponds to Chapter 3 of the course packet.  The Wednesday material corresponds to Chapter 4 of the course packet.


### R skills

Outside of class, complete the following R walkthroughs.  
* [kidney funtion and aging](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/creatinine/creatinine.html): naive prediction intervals and the analysis of variance   
* [reaction time in video games](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/rxntime/rxntime.html): modeling numerical outcomes with more than one categorical predictor; dummy variables and interaction terms; analysis of variance.  
* [house prices](http://jgscott.github.io/teaching/r/house/house.html): modeling numerical outcomes with both numerical and categorical predictors.  



### Exercises  
[The exercises this week]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercises/exercises03-SDS325H.zip) are about prediction intervals, the decomposition and variance, and models with multiple categorical predictors.  You will also get an introduction to the key concept of sampling variability, which you will simulate using the Monte Carlo method.  They are due on Tuesday, February 10.  (It says February 9 on the PDF but there is an extension of one day.)  Also, the last part of Problem 4 (Part C) is a 1-point bonus question.



